README/contributing: update after migration to Gatsby (#1138)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/user-guide/contributing/blog.md

[project](https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org).

## Prepare your environment

Set up the
[Development environment](/doc/user-guide/contributing/docs#development-environment)
to see how your content will look like after you publish it. In the
`yarn develop` mode you will be able to run the website locally, and it'll be
updating content in your browser as you edit the post.

## Add a post

Create a Markdown file in the `content/blog` folder. File name must follow the
pattern: `YYYY-MM-DD-my-new-blog-post.md`. After merging this file into the
`master` branch, blog post will be published at `blog/my-new-blog-post` address
automatically.

Write front matter in the following format:

```yml
---
title: Hello World
date: '2015-05-01T22:12:03.284Z'
description: 'Hello World'
descriptionLong: |
  Some long
  multiline
  text (supports _basic_ [Markdown](link))
picture: /uploads/image.jpeg
pictureComment: Some _Comment_ (supports _basic_ [Markdown](link))
author: ../authors/author_name.md
tags:
  - Open Source
  - Machine Learning
  - Data Science
  - Version Control
  - AI
---

```

- `title` - **Required.** Title of the post.

> - `date` - **Required.** Post date. Will be used to sort posts and in RSS.

Reviewer: What timestamp formats are expected/supported? Can a partial one like `2020-04-12` work?

Author: yes, partial is enough (engine will transform it automatically). I'll clarify this.

Reviewer: Thanks

To add images, put them into `static/uploads` and reference like this:

```md
![](/uploads/images/2020-02-10/image.png)
```

To add a subtitle:

```md
![](/uploads/images/2020-02-10/image.png)_subtitle [with a link](link)_
```

To set the image size and text wrap:

```md
![](/uploads/images/2020-02-10/image.png '=500')
![](/uploads/images/2020-02-10/image.png '=500 Some Title')
![](/uploads/images/2020-02-10/image.png 'Some Title =500')
![](/uploads/images/2020-02-10/image.png 'Some Title :wrap-left =500')
![](/uploads/images/2020-02-10/image.png ':wrap-left =500 Some Title')
```

### Embedding links

For those supported by the
[`gatsby-remark-embedder`](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-remark-embedder/)
plugin, just put a link like described on its home page, e.g.
[Twitter](https://github.com/MichaelDeBoey/gatsby-remark-embedder#twitter) or
[YouTube](https://github.com/MichaelDeBoey/gatsby-remark-embedder#youtube):

```md
Your regular markdown paragraph ...

https://youtu.be/4h6I9_xeYA4

... another regular markdown paragraph.
```

For any other external link you can embed it with a custom HTML markup like
this:

```md
Your regular markdown paragraph ...

> <external-link

Reviewer: I don't understand this. `<external-link>` is an actual special tag?

Author: yes, a special custom HTML

Reviewer: I see them in the blog now. Nice, they're like search result previews 👍

href="https://dvc.org/doc"
title="Open-source tools to version control Machine Learning models and experiments"
description="AI and ML are becoming an essential part of the engineering..."
link="dvc.org"
image="/uploads/images/image.png" />

... another regular markdown paragraph.
```

## Adding authors

Create `.md` file in the `content/authors` folder.

Write front matter in the following format:

```yml
path: ../authors/relative_path_to_file.md
name: Author's Name
avatar: /uploads/avatar.jpeg
```

- `path` - **Required.** String that the CMS will insert to the author field in
  the blog post. Should be equal to the path from the blog post to the author's
  `.md` file.
- `name` – **Required.** Author's name.

> - `avatar` - **Required.** Relative path to the author's avatar.

Reviewer: Maybe set some guidelines about only uploading very small and properly compressed images?

Author: 👍

Author: I'm not worried in this case (not that many authors), but put a note in the Adding images section

## Prepare your environment

Set up the
[Development environment](/doc/user-guide/contributing/docs#development-environment)
to see how your content will look like after you publish it. In the
`yarn develop` mode you will be able to run the website locally, and it'll be
updating content in your browser as you edit the post.

## Add a post

Create a Markdown file in the `content/blog` folder. File name must follow the
pattern: `YYYY-MM-DD-my-new-blog-post.md`. After merging this file into the
`master` branch, blog post will be published at `blog/my-new-blog-post` address
automatically.

Write front matter in the following format:

```yml
---
title: Hello World
date: '2015-05-01T22:12:03.284Z'
description: 'Hello World'
descriptionLong: |
  Some long
  multiline
  text (supports _basic_ [Markdown](link))
picture: /uploads/image.jpeg
pictureComment: Some _Comment_ (supports _basic_ [Markdown](link))
author: ../authors/author_name.md
tags:
  - Open Source
  - Machine Learning
  - Data Science
  - Version Control
  - AI
---

```

- `title` - **Required.** Title of the post.
- `date` - **Required.** Publication date in the `YYYY-MM-DD` format. Will be

>   used to sort posts and in RSS.

Reviewer: Maybe mention time can be included though? Or link to some standard date time format doc (something like http://blog.stevenlevithan.com/archives/date-time-format).

Author: let's keep it the same and simple everywhere for consistency, at least for now

Reviewer: OK but the example above has a complicated one `date: '2015-05-01T22:12:03.284Z'`

Author: I'll update it in-place

> deployment, and other operations with the repository.

The original image should be 2x height and width of the one you want to see on
the screen to look sharp. To add images, put them into `static/uploads` and
reference like this:

```md
![](/uploads/images/2020-02-10/image.png)
```

To add a subtitle:

```md
![](/uploads/images/2020-02-10/image.png)_subtitle [with a link](link)_
```

To set the image size and text wrap:

```md
![](/uploads/images/2020-02-10/image.png '=500')
![](/uploads/images/2020-02-10/image.png '=500 Some Title')
![](/uploads/images/2020-02-10/image.png 'Some Title =500')
![](/uploads/images/2020-02-10/image.png 'Some Title :wrap-left =500')
![](/uploads/images/2020-02-10/image.png ':wrap-left =500 Some Title')
```

### Embedding links

Any URLs
[supported by `gatsby-remark-embedder`](https://github.com/MichaelDeBoey/gatsby-remark-embedder#supported-services)
such as Youtube and Twitter share links will be embedded automatically. You just
need to paste them in the post Markdown, for example:

```md
... Check out this great video right here:

https://youtu.be/4h6I9_xeYA4

And now lets move onto ...
```

> For any other external link you can embed it with a custom HTML-like markup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can ember a preview of any other website using our special  `<external-link>` XHTML tag:
```

Author: changed it to a simple language ... not need to precise and frighten users with XHTML :)

Reviewer: 👍
